.TH HYDRO 1 "May 2024" "hydr0g3n" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hydro \- fast HTTP content discovery and templated wordlist execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hydro
\-u
.I target
\-w
.I wordlist
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hydro
is the command line interface for the hydr0g3n toolkit. It performs high-
concurrency HTTP requests using templated wordlists, configurable matchers,
and multiple output formats. The tool is designed to help penetration testers
and developers discover hidden content or verify wordlist based workflows.
.PP
The default behaviour issues HEAD requests against the provided target URL.
Request concurrency, HTTP method, matching rules, and output destinations can
all be tuned via command line flags or configuration profiles. A deterministic
run identifier is calculated from the runtime configuration to make resumable
scans and result comparison straightforward.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -u ", " --u "=""
Target URL or template to probe (required).
.TP
.BR -w ", " --w "=""
Path to the wordlist file to execute (required).
.TP
.BR --concurrency "="
Number of concurrent HTTP workers (default: 10).
.TP
.BR --timeout "="
Request timeout duration (default: 10s).
.TP
.BR --output "="
Write results to the provided file path. Defaults to stdout when unset.
.TP
.BR --output-format "="
Select the format written to
.BR --output
(default: jsonl).
.TP
.BR --beginner
Enable beginner-friendly defaults such as GET requests and built-in filters.
.TP
.BR --profile "="
Load named execution profile values from configuration.
.TP
.BR --match-status "="
Comma separated list of HTTP status codes to include in output hits.
.TP
.BR --filter-size "="
Filter visible hits by response size range in bytes (min-max).
.TP
.BR --resume "="
Use the provided SQLite database file for resumable scanning.
.TP
.BR --method "="
Override the HTTP method for requests. Supports GET, HEAD, and POST.
.TP
.BR --follow-redirects
Follow HTTP redirects (up to 5 hops) when evaluating matches.
.TP
.BR --similarity-threshold "="
Hide responses whose bodies are at least this similar to the baseline (0-1).
.TP
.BR --no-baseline
Disable the automatic baseline request used for similarity filtering.
.TP
.BR --show-similarity
Include similarity scores in the JSON output for debugging.
.TP
.BR --burp-export "="
Write matched requests and responses to a Burp-compatible XML file.
.TP
.BR --burp-host "="
POST matched findings to a Burp Collaborator endpoint.
.TP
.BR --pre-hook "="
Execute a shell command prior to scanning to fetch authentication headers.
.TP
.BR --completion-script "="
Print a shell completion script for
.B bash
,
.B zsh
, or
.B fish
and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Beginner preset with automatic configuration
.EX
$ hydro --beginner -u https://example.com -w wordlists/common.txt
.EE
.TP
Resume a long running scan and write JSONL output to disk
.EX
$ hydro -u https://example.com/{FUZZ} -w wordlists/dirs.txt \
    --resume runs/example.db --output results.jsonl
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I completions/
Generated shell completion scripts for bash, zsh, and fish.
.TP
.I scripts/generate-completions.sh
Helper script that regenerates the completion files from the binary.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR man (1),
.BR jq (1)
